This is a small test program for the KOI8-R support on Linux consoles.
This test needs full access to the console to work properly. It means: run
the program from the shell, don't use midnight commander nor screen, nor
other application in the middle. Also ensure the user you use can write to
/dev/vcsa* devices. I didn't test it using frame buffer. It won't work from
an X console, nor in native X mode. Just pure console access, if in doubt try
it as root.


How to run the test?

1) Compile it using "make -f test.mak" as with other examples.
2) Load a KOI8-R font and a russian keyboard map. The setkoi8.sh script is
what I use for it. If you use KOI8-R in your machine you probably won't need
it at all.
3) Run the test "./test.exe".
4) Do the testings (screen and keyboard tests).
5) Go back to your original encodings. I use setlat1.sh for this.

What can be tested?

  The first thing to test is the detection of the encoding. The background
should look as a regular TV background and the file menu entry should show
the russian equivalent for file. Note I know nothing about russian, a user
provided the traslation so I trust this is the correct one ;-). According to
the traslitaration table of my dictionary this is "fail", the pronunciation
of the english word file.
  The second thing to test is the keyboard. If you know how ru1 map works you
can skeep the following explanation.
  The ru1 key map uses the right alt key to switch between two modes:
cyrillic and latin. The key is a toggle key. To test it just press the right
alt, release it and then press the A key, you should get the cyrillic letter
whose translitaration is F (looks like a greek phi). Pressing the right alt
again you'll go back to the latin mode, needed to enter command line commands
;-)
  Now you should test the "File" menu. Press Alt+a and you'll get the menu.
Then test the same but in the cyrillic mode.

Note: The lat1-16.psf.gz font included here is a real latin 1 font, not the
damaged one included in a lot of console-tools packages. Debian Potato and
Woody have broken lat1-* fonts, they are in fact copies of lat1u-* fonts.

SET
